HOLD FOR RELEASE: Supporting image digests for air gap bundles (#551)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/packaging-private-images.md

:::

## Using Image Tags and Digests

This section describes using image tags and digests with your application images. It includes information about when image tags and digests are supported, as well how to enable support for image digests in air gap bundles.

### Support for Image Tags and Digests

The following table describes the use cases in which image tags and digests are supported:

<table>
  <tr>
    <th width="10%">Installation</th>
    <th width="30%">Support for Image Tags</th>
    <th width="30%">Support for Image Digests</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Online</td>
    <td>Supported by default</td>
    <td>Supported by default</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Air Gap</td>
    <td>Supported by default</td>
    <td>

>     <p>Supported for applications on the app manager VERSION NUMBER and later when the <b>Enable new air gap bundle</b> toggle is enabled on the channel.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <p>Supported for applications on the app manager v1.82.0 and later when the <b>Enable new air gap bundle</b> toggle is enabled on the channel.</p>
```

    <p>For more information, see <a href="#digests-air-gap">Using Image Digests in Air Gap Installations</a> below.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

:::note
You can use image tags and image digests together in any case where both are supported.
:::

### Using Image Digests in Air Gap Installations {#digests-air-gap}

> For applications installed with the app manager VERSION NUMBER or later, you can enable a format for air gap bundles that supports the use of image digests for private images. This air gap bundle format also ensures that identical image layers are not duplicated, resulting in a smaller air gap bundle size.

Reviewer: Put version number in there. And digests work for all images (public too), not just private.
```suggestion
For applications installed with the app manager v1.82.0 or later, you can enable a format for air gap bundles that supports the use of image digests. This air gap bundle format also ensures that identical image layers are not duplicated, resulting in a smaller air gap bundle size.
```

You can enable or disable this air gap bundle format using the **Enable new air gap bundle** toggle in the settings for any channel in the vendor portal.

When you enable **Enable new air gap bundle** on a channel, all air gap bundles that you build or rebuild on that channel use the updated air gap bundle format.

> If users on a version of the app manager earlier than VERSION NUMBER attempt to install or upgrade an application with an air gap bundle that uses the **Enable new air gap bundle** format, then the admin console displays an error message when they attempt to upload the bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If users on a version of the app manager earlier than v1.82.0 attempt to install or upgrade an application with an air gap bundle that uses the **Enable new air gap bundle** format, then the admin console displays an error message when they attempt to upload the bundle.
```

To enable the new air gap bundle format on a channel:

1. In the Replicated [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com/channels), go to **Channels** and click the **edit** icon in the top right of the channel where you want to use the new air gap bundle format.
1. Enable the **Enable new air gap bundle** toggle.

> 1. (Recommended) To prevent users on a version of the app manager earlier than VERSION NUMBER from attempting to upgrade with an air gap bundle that uses the **Enable new air gap bundle** format, set `minKOTSVersion` to VERSION NUMBER in the Application custom resource manifest file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Recommended) To prevent users on a version of the app manager earlier than v1.82.0 from attempting to upgrade with an air gap bundle that uses the **Enable new air gap bundle** format, set `minKOTSVersion` to "1.82.0" in the Application custom resource manifest file.
```

   `minKotsVersion` defines the minimum version of the app manager required by the application release. Including `minKotsVersion` displays a warning in the admin console when users attempt to install or upgrade the application if they are not on the specified minimum version or later. For more information, see [Setting Minimum and Target Versions for KOTS](packaging-kots-versions).

   **Example**:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: kots.io/v1beta1
   kind: Application
   metadata:
     name: my-application
   spec:
     ...

>      minKotsVersion: "VERSION NUMBER"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     minKotsVersion: "1.82.0"
```

     ...
   ```

1. Test your changes:
   1. Save and promote the release to a development environment.

>    1. On the channel where you enabled **Enable new air gap bundle**, click **Release history**. On the Release History page, click **Build** or **Rebuild** to create an air gap bundle with the new format.

Reviewer: Technically if they just promoted the release, they wouldn't have a "Rebuild" option. Unless they have their channel set up to automatically build air gap bundles, in which case it would have been built using the new format since we enabled the toggle in the steps above. So we can probably remove "Rebuild", though we could consider mentioning the auto-build capability if we want to cover everyone's possible scenarios.

Author: Want to make sure I understand correctly. I was thinking that if they promote the release to a channel where they have already promoted releases in the past, then they would be able to Rebuild an air gap build from a previous release to test the toggle. (Like this use case described above: "When you enable **Enable new air gap bundle** on a channel, all air gap bundles that you build or rebuild on that channel use the updated air gap bundle format.")

 Is this the case? If so, maybe it would be helpful for me to clarify that they can click "Build" on the air gap bundle for the release that they just promoted, or they can click "Rebuild" on an air gap bundle from a previous release promoted to that channel?

Author: (Or, of course, the auto-build scenario that you described above, in which they wouldn't really need to click anything, except Download)

Reviewer: That is the case, you're correct. I was speaking to the fact that these instructions are related to "test your changes" and "save and promote the release". In that case, this is a new release, and not one that existed already.

So your comments are right. I just felt that this section was about a new release that you're creating, not an old one you're revisiting.

Author: Edited. Decided to leave off the auto-build piece because it just got sort of wordy, and I figure it's obvious whether or not the thing was built. Also added a step for "download the bundle", which I think further helps clarify this

      ![Vendor portal release history page](../../static/images/airgap-download-bundle.png)

>    1. Install or upgrade the application using the admin console. Upload the new air gap bundle to confirm that the installation or upgrade completes successfully.

Reviewer: Any need to mention upgrading the app manager to 1.82.0 or later first? Depends on whether this is an initial install or upgrade I suppose.

Author: Oh, yeah, that could be worth mentioning. "Install or upgrade the application with version 1.82.0 or later of the admin console or the kots CLI. Upload..."

Reviewer: Looks good.

:::

## Using Image Tags and Digests

> This section describes using image tags and digests with your application images. It includes information about when image tags and digests are supported, as well how to enable support for image digests in air gap bundles.

Reviewer 2: s/ as well how to / and how to

If you don't change to "and how to", then you need to add "as" to make it "as well as".

Author: done!

    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

:::note
You can use image tags and image digests together in any case where both are supported.
:::

### Using Image Digests in Air Gap Installations {#digests-air-gap}

For applications installed with the app manager v1.82.0 or later, you can enable a format for air gap bundles that supports the use of image digests. This air gap bundle format also ensures that identical image layers are not duplicated, resulting in a smaller air gap bundle size.

You can enable or disable this air gap bundle format using the **Enable new air gap bundle** toggle in the settings for any channel in the vendor portal.

When you enable **Enable new air gap bundle** on a channel, all air gap bundles that you build or rebuild on that channel use the updated air gap bundle format.

If users on a version of the app manager earlier than v1.82.0 attempt to install or upgrade an application with an air gap bundle that uses the **Enable new air gap bundle** format, then the admin console displays an error message when they attempt to upload the bundle.

To enable the new air gap bundle format on a channel:

> 1. In the Replicated [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com/channels), go to **Channels** and click the edit icon in the top right of the channel where you want to use the new air gap bundle format.

Reviewer 2: Style question that we haven't decided on. Do we want to get away from using "click" and just use generic terms, like "go to", "select" etc.? I haven't used "go to" much before, but this is what Microsoft UI styles say: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/describing-interactions-with-ui

Author: Oh yeah, we can definitely say click here. I just use "go to" instead of "navigate" usually. But realistically "go to" should be used only if I"m saying "go to the Channels page". Since it's bold, this should say definitely say "click"

Author: Ended up changing this to "go to the Channels page" to avoid redundancy on the word "click" in the same sentence

Author: (and reviewing the Microsoft guide, looks like that's in line with how they recommend using "go to"? Maybe that's where I picked up this habit 😄 )

> 1. In the Replicated [vendor portal](https://vendor.replicated.com/channels), go to **Channels** and click the **edit** icon in the top right of the channel where you want to use the new air gap bundle format.

Reviewer: Does edit need to be bold given that it's not a button that actually says edit? I don't know the policy for that situation, where the button is an icon.

Author: That's a good catch; I had just copied this line from another topic, but you're right that that doesn't really need to be bold
